In this lecture, we take a look at locates in Boise.
Assess.
So what is cc?
CC stands for cascading style sheets.
It is used to describe how hates him or elements should be displayed on screen.
It is used extensively across the web and can be used to control the appearance of elements across multiple
web pages.
We can use RSS to select elements of our chosen.
This includes the property markers seen earlier.
So if we look at the below code snippet, I'm using driver defined elements by CSF selector and then
in the brackets and double quotes, I'm providing access value.
In this case it's dot action star text and that DOT employs a class name.
So let's look at an example.
So as you are aware, the main purpose of this course is to teach you automation test in using Selenium
web driver.
But CCS plays a major part in how we can select certain elements, and we could then use those elements
during in our tests.
So it's important that you have at least a basic understanding of costs in order to get the most out
of this course.
And before I move on to showing you how we can select elements using CSR, I thought it was important
to at least cover the basics.
So I'm going to open up Chrome and I'm going to simply type in CCS and do a search.
And the first result should be two w free schools dot com.
And if I select this, it should take you to the following websites.
So I'm interested in CSC syntax and cursor selectors.
If I select syntax, you should see the following page and I'm interested in this section here.
So when used in siesta style elements, we use the following syntax.
We provide the select type and then we set a declaration.
So in this case we set in the colour to be blue.
So what this means is that for all one elements, we're applying some styling.
So if we take this page for an example, let's pretend that this is a height one element.
If I write the below syntax H1 brackets color colon blue.
Semicolon.
Font size.
Colon.
12 semicolon.
This means to set the H1 color to blue and the font size to 12 pixels.
So that's how CCIS can be used to apply a particular styling to a set of selectors or a single selector.
Next I'm going to select this selectors link, which will take me to the following page.
See here.
What we're doing is learning about CSA selectors and it's states.
A CSA selector selects the similar elements you want to style.
But of course, in automation testing, we don't want to style the elements, but we want to interact
with the elements.
So that's why we're still going to be using CSA selectors.
If we carry on reading it states that CSA selectors are used to find or select the similar elements
you want to style.
So again, let's ignore this want to style and instead let's use wants to interact in terms of automation
testing.
If we carry on reading, it says we can divide CSA selectors into five categories.
So simple selectors such as by name, idea or class, which we've seen examples for.
Combination selectors or Combinator selectors.
So selecting elements based on a specific relationship between them.
Persuade tho class selectors so selected elements based on a certain state persuader elements, selectors
so select and style a part of an element or attribute selectors to select elements based on a particular
attributes.
HP value.
So realistically, we're mainly going to be using the top two most and so we can see how we can use
this as selectors.
Any examples I'm going to show you later.
But the key thing is, is to learn about how we can select elements used in CSIS.
So if I scroll down on this menu here, you'll also see a link to CSIS selectors under the CSIS References
section.
If I click that link, it will take you to the following page.
So this is a reference guide of how we can use RSS selectors.
So in this case, if we look at the element example, an example is selecting the P tag and this will
select all P elements.
In the example below is provided an example of an element and a class.
So P is the element dots.
Intro is the class.
And this will select LP elements with a class of intro.
So what this means is it's a way of how we can use CSIS to select elements and we want to be able to
select elements in our tests because we might want to do something such as enter text into a textbox
or select the button.
So understanding how we can use these selectors is a key part.
Automation testing.
And you'll find an automation test in CSA selectors is one of the most common ways to interact with
elements.
The other being exposed selectors which will cover later.
So this is a basic understanding of CSA selectors and I highly recommend you go to this w free schools
dot com website to at least spend some time learning about CSR selectors.
If you're not confident on that already.
But for now, I believe that's enough for us to continue.
So let's look at an example of use in CSA selectors.
So now let's take a look at an actual example.
I'm going to open up Chrome and I'm going to go to the automation test in home page.
I'm then going to click the button's link and then on this page I'm going to press F12 to open up the
chrome develop at all.
I'm then going to get to select it all and focus on bottom one.
And we can see the HTML is now highlighted.
So as we've seen previously, this person has an idea of baeten underscore one and we can use this I.D.
by either using the buy I.D., select try type or by using by CSX select a type.
In CSIS, an IED is represented by a hash.
And if we look at the bottom right hand corner here, you can see button hash between underscore one,
which is representing an element and then the unit date.
So back in Eclipse, I'm going to highlight the class from the last lecture and I'm going to press control
C and Control V to copy and paste it.
And I'm going to call this new lecture l05 for lecture five I'm going to call it locates him by CSC
and then click okay.
And then going to double click that class to open it.
And so I'm going to make some changes to this new class.
The first thing I'm going to do is update the driver.
They'll get method to use this web link, which takes me directly to the Buttons page, so I'm going
to replace this existing value.
I'm then going to delete the bottom line of this class, and I'm going to rewrite it for what we're
trying to do here.
So I am going to use a unique I.D. for the first button.
So I'm going to write driver dot find element by.
Dot CSA selector.
And in brackets and double quotes, I'm going to provide a value.
So I want you to think about what I'm going to provide here.
So I'm using a CSA selector, so what can I use?
So I have an idea.
So if I copy this idea and then paste it in the double quotes, then at the end of the line, because
it's a button, I want to click it.
So I'm going to write a dot click.
So I'm then going to say the class began to file and save and then I'm going to right click and run
the class to see what happens.
So what do you think is going to happen here?
The browser has opened and it's gone to the Buttons page.
But it hasn't clicked.
Bottom one.
And if we go back to Eclipse and look at a console, we can see it as an error here.
And it states no such element is unable to locate the element.
Why do you think that is?
The reason is because we use in CSA selector, we need to tell sitting and web driver that we're providing
an I.D. value.
And to do that insists we need to provide the hash character.
So this hash character is known in CSA as an I.D. so the value that follows a hash is the I.D. value.
If used to do a dot as shown, now we indicate a class name.
So I'm going to change this back to hash as this is an idea value that we provide in.
So I'm going to save the class and try running it to see what happens.
So we can see this time a alert has appeared saying we have clicked by one.
So that's proven.
That was able to click the button by using the I.D., but also by using the CCS selector.
And if we look at the HTML, we can see that this element is also at button elements within an I.D.
So another way we can write this using CCS or valid CCS is by placing the element type at the front
of that value.
So the element an in hash which indicates an I.D. of B10 underscore one.
So if I was to save this and try run in the class again.
Let's see what happens.
And we can see that dealer appeared again proven that that value also worked to select parts of one
and that was by providing the element and then the idea value, which is valid.
Yes.
So that is a high level overview of CSF selectors in Selenium Web Driver.
The Seer says select the method allows us to avoid excess value in order to focus on a particular element
that we may want to interact with.
So I highly recommend you to go to the W Free Schools website to read up about selectors as understanding.
CSA selectors will be highly beneficial for this course.
But otherwise, don't worry.
We'll be using CSA selectors extensively throughout this course and by the end you'll be very confident
and familiar with them.
Thank you for watching.